Add a tutorial for the wildcard widget (#30412)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/dashboards/guide/getting_started_with_wildcard_widget.md

---
title: Getting Started with the Wildcard Widget
further_reading:
- link: "/dashboards/widgets/wildcard/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Wildcard widget Overview"
- link: "/dashboards/guide/wildcard_examples/"
  tag: "Guide"
  text: "Wildcard widget example visualizations"
- link: "/dashboards/guide/using_vega_lite_in_wildcard_widgets/"
  tag: "Guide"
  text: "Using Vega-Lite in Wildcard widgets"
---

## Overview

The Wildcard widget is a powerful and flexible visualization tool in Datadog that lets you build custom visual representations using the [Vega-Lite grammar][1].

### Tutorial Objectives

By the end of this tutorial, you will be able to:

* Use Vega-Lite concepts to define visualizations in Wildcard widgets.
* Import a query from an existing widget.
* Enable inter-widget interaction using a context menu.

### Prerequisites

* A Datadog account with access to [Notebooks][2] or [Dashboards][3].
* You have telemetry such as APM trace data or request duration metrics.
* You are familiar with basic Datadog widgets and dashboards and can [add a widget and edit it][4].

> ## Understand the Key Concepts

Author: That's a good point, it's not as relevant to the tutorial, I'll find a better home for this info!

2. Use the widget menu or use the keyboard shortcut (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>CMD</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd>) to copy the widget.
3. In a new dashboard, add a Wildcard widget.
4. In the editor, clear the default query ({{< img src="/icons/cancel-circle.png" alt="X icon to clear the query" inline="true" width="40px">}}).
5. Paste the copied request with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>V</kbd>. The query and associated fields carry over automatically.

{{< img src="/dashboards/guide/analyze_p50_vs_p95_latency_with_the_wildcard_widget/import_widget_walkthrough.mp4" alt="Walkthrough of importing a widget query into the Wildcard widget in Datadog" video=true >}}

## Step 2: Refine the query

In the query editor:

1. Expand the **Data Preview** to identify the fields returned from the query.
2. Next to your query, click **As** to add an alias to your query. This adds clarity, for example, rename `p50:trace.http.request{*} by {service}`→ `p50`

{{< img src="/dashboards/guide/analyze_p50_vs_p95_latency_with_the_wildcard_widget/refine_query_walkthrough.mp4" alt="Walkthrough of refining a query in the Wildcard widget, including renaming fields and adding a P95 formula" video=true >}}

> ## Step 3: Auto-generate a visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Auto-generate a visualization
```

At the top of the query editor:

1. Click the **Define Visual** tab.
2. Press <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> (Mac) or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> (Windows/Linux) to open the **Command Palette**.
3. Select **Auto-select chart**.

{{< img src="/dashboards/guide/analyze_p50_vs_p95_latency_with_the_wildcard_widget/command_palette.mp4" alt="Your image description" video=true >}}

Datadog automatically creates a visualization based on your query.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>Tip:</strong> Use the Command Palette (<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>) to auto-select a chart type based on your query, add or edit encodings, or rotate axes/switch chart types.
</div>

> ## Step 4: Add a context menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Add a context menu
```

To add interactivity to your graph, enable context menu support:

1. In the visual JSON editor, add the following:
   ```json
    "params": [
        {
            "name": "datadogPointSelection",
            "select": "point"
        }
    ]
   ```
2. Save and run the widget.
3. Click any data point in your wildcard widget to bring up a **context menu** with dynamic filters.

For more information, see [Using Vega-Lite with Wildcard Widgets in Datadog][6].

## Next Steps

> You can do any number of customizations with Wildcard widgets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wildcard widgets support a wide range of customizations, including:
```

> - [Change the thickness of lines to show weight and intensity][7]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Adjusting the thickness of lines to show weight and intensity][7]
```

> - [Add images to represent values][8]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Adding images to visually represent values][8]
```

> - [Layer visualizations][9]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Layering visualizations for richer context[9]
```
Suggest changing these to verb phrasing and add a bit more detail but feel free to keep as is !
